# ClickStreamFlow 

``ClickStreamFlow`` example application for Tigon.

This app serves as a demonstration for using Tigon SQL to join 2 data streams.

In this example a view event data stream and a click event data stream are joined to generate meta information for each click event using the view even data stream. Some click events are filtered out on the basis of conditions specified in the SQL query.

## Implementation Details

The ``ClickStreamFlow`` application consists of:
 - A ``SQLInputFlowlet`` that accepts two incoming data streams of view events and click events. It then processes this data based on the provided SQL query and provides meta information for each click event using the information from the associated view event. 
 - A ``DigestFlowlet`` that accepts the output data generated by the ``SQLInputFlowlet`` and emits it to the a specified HTTP end-point as a string encoded JSON. 
 - The generated output data is logged to stdout

## Data Processing

``ClickStreamFlow`` accepts two input streams:
- ``viewStream`` : A stream of data packets that represent a view of a web page. This data contains the following fields:
    - pageViewID : Represents the unique ID that corresponds to the view event on a specific page. In this example this ID is assumed to be an increasing attribute. It can be used to identify the specific view event.
    - viewTime : Represents the time at which the view event occured. In this example the values are represented in seconds and stored as integers.
    - lid<N> : Respresents the ID of the Nth link available on the given web page.
    - pageInfo : This field contains additional information about the web page being viewed. For e.g. it may contain the name of the page, the web server it is being served from and so on.
    - linkDetails : This field is a string encoded map of link IDs and their associated details.
- ``clickStream`` : A stream of data packets that represents a click event. This data contains the following fields:
    - refPageViewID : The corresponding page view event ID that was responsible for this click.
    - clickTime : Represents the time at which this click event occured.
    - lid : Represents the link ID of the link that was clicked.

The SQL query performs a join on these two data streams based on the pageViewID and the refPageViewID in viewStream and clickStream respectively. It then generates an output record that contains meta information associated with each click. It contains click time, referrer page information, link ID, link Details and the referrer page view ID.

The given query also filters out all click events where the click event occured 5 minutes (300 seconds) after the associated view event.

## Build & Usage
 
 To build the ``ClickStreamFlow`` jar, run:

     mvn clean package

 To build the jar without running the tests, run:

     mvn clean package -DskipTests

 To run the app in the Standalone Runtime Environment:

     $ ./run_standalone.sh /path/to/ClickStreamFlow-<version>.jar co.cask.tigon.apps.clickStream.ClickStream

 To run the app in Distributed Runtime Environment:

     $ ./run_distributed.sh /path/to/ClickStreamFlow-<version>.jar co.cask.tigon.apps.clickStream.ClickStream

Optional runtime arguments:
    - ``httpPort`` Specify the netowrk port for the HTTP data ingestion service. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.
    - ``tcpPort_viewStream`` Specify the network for the TCP data ingestion service for ingesting view stream data. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.
    - ``tcpPort_clickStream`` Specify the network for the TCP data ingestion service for ingesting click stream data. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.

## Example Usage

To post view event data to viewStream:

    $ curl -X POST http://localhost:<httpPort>/v1/tigon/viewStream -d '{ "data" : ["1","10","0","1","2","PageName1","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"] }' 

To post click event data to clickStream:

    $ curl -X POST http://localhost:<httpPort>/v1/tigon/clickStream -d '{ "data" : ["2","290","1"] }' 

## License and Trademarks

Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.
