# ClickStreamFlow 

``ClickStreamFlow`` example application for Tigon.

This app serves as a demonstration for using Tigon SQL to join 2 data streams.

In this example, a view event data stream and a click event data stream are joined to generate meta information for each click event using the view event data stream. Click events are filtered on the basis of conditions specified in a SQL query.

## Implementation Details

The ``ClickStreamFlow`` application consists of:
 - A ``SQLInputFlowlet`` that accepts two incoming data streams of view events and click events. It then processes this data based on the provided SQL query and provides meta information for each click event using the information from the associated view event. 
 - A ``DigestFlowlet`` that accepts the output data generated by the ``SQLInputFlowlet`` and emits it to a HTTP end-point as a string encoded JSON. 
 - The generated output data is logged to stdout.

## Data Processing

``ClickStreamFlow`` accepts two input streams:
- ``viewStream`` : A stream of data packets that represent a view of a web page. The data contains the following fields:
    - pageViewID : Represents the unique ID that corresponds to the view event on a specific page. In this example, the ID is assumed to be an increasing attribute. It can be used to identify a specific view event.
    - viewTime : Represents the time at which the view event occured. In this example, times are in seconds and stored as integers.
    - lid<N> : Respresents the ID of the nth link available on a given web page.
    - pageInfo : This field contains additional information about the web page being viewed. It may contain the name of the page or the web server it is being served from.
    - linkDetails : This field is a string-encoded map of link IDs and their associated details.
- ``clickStream`` : A stream of data packets that represents a click event. It contains these fields:
    - refPageViewID : The corresponding page view event ID that was responsible for the click.
    - clickTime : The time at which this click event occured.
    - lid : The ID of the link that was clicked. 

The SQL query performs a join on these two data streams based on the pageViewID and the refPageViewID in viewStream and clickStream respectively. It generates an output record containing meta information associated with each click: click time; referrer page information; link ID; link details; and the referrer page view ID.

The query filters out all click events that occurred five minutes (300 seconds) after the associated view event

## Build and Usage
 
 To build the ``ClickStreamFlow`` jar, run:

     mvn clean package

 To build the jar without running the tests, run:

     mvn clean package -DskipTests

 To run the app in the Standalone Runtime Environment:

     $ ./run_standalone.sh /path/to/ClickStreamFlow-<version>.jar co.cask.tigon.apps.clickStreamflow.ClickStreamFlow

 To run the app in the Distributed Runtime Environment:

     $ ./run_distributed.sh /path/to/ClickStreamFlow-<version>.jar co.cask.tigon.apps.clickstreamflow.ClickStreamFlow

Optional runtime arguments:
    - ``httpPort``: Specify the netowrk port for the HTTP data ingestion service. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.
    - ``tcpPort_viewStream``: Specify the network for the TCP data ingestion service for ingesting view stream data. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.
    - ``tcpPort_clickStream``: Specify the network for the TCP data ingestion service for ingesting click stream data. If not specified, Tigon automatically assigns a port. This value is always announced at runtime.

## Example Usage

To post view event data to the viewStream:

    $ curl -X POST http://localhost:<httpPort>/v1/tigon/viewStream -d '{ "data" : ["1","10","0","1","2","PageName1","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"] }' 

To post click event data to the clickStream:

    $ curl -X POST http://localhost:<httpPort>/v1/tigon/clickStream -d '{ "data" : ["2","290","1"] }' 

## Sample Input and Output

Input
-------
- ``viewStream`` : 
    - {"data":["1","10","0","1","2","PageName1","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["2","20","0","1","2","PageName2","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["3","30","0","1","2","PageName3","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["4","40","0","1","2","PageName4","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["5","50","0","1","2","PageName5","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["6","60","0","1","2","PageName6","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["7","70","0","1","2","PageName7","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["8","80","0","1","2","PageName8","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["9","90","0","1","2","PageName9","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
    - {"data":["10","100","0","1","2","PageName10","'0':'LinkName0' - '1':'LinkName1' - '2':'LinkName2'"]}
- ``clickStream`` : 
    - {"data":["2","290","1"]}
    - {"data":["4","320","2"]}
    - {"data":["6","350","0"]}
    - {"data":["8","380","1"]}
    - {"data":["10","410","2"]}

Output
-------
- ClickTime : 290	Link Message : LinkName1	Referrer Page : PageName2
- ClickTime : 320	Link Message : LinkName2	Referrer Page : PageName4
- ClickTime : 350	Link Message : LinkName0	Referrer Page : PageName6
- ClickTime : 380	Link Message : LinkName1	Referrer Page : PageName8


## License and Trademarks

Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.
